Use Column store for MIN/MAX aggregations on NUMERIC (#19264)
crate/crate: docs/appendices/release-notes/6.4.0.rst

Performance and Resilience Improvements
---------------------------------------

- Improved the performance of the :ref:`min() <aggregation-min>` and
  :ref:`max() <aggregation-max>` aggregations for columns of type :ref:`NUMERIC

>   <data-types-numeric>`.

Author: Btw, if you're interested, I can try providing a number for the performance improvement (it would probably look nice in the release notes:) ). I might need a bit of time to figure out how you're doing benchmarking, so it's probably better that I do that outside of this PR (not to block it).

Reviewer: To verify the impact of a change we typically use the `compare_run.py` script from https://github.com/crate/crate-benchmarks with a cr8 spec file relevant to the change.

E.g. something like:

```
./compare_run.py \
    --v1 latest-nightly \
    --v2 /path/to/crate/app/target/crate-6.4.0-2026-04-21-07-17-bf7b5ad.tar.gz \
    --forks 1 \
    --env CRATE_HEAP_SIZE=2g \
    --spec specs/aggregate.toml
```

For this particular change you could update the `uservisits` table definition to use numeric for the `adRevenue`.
With that I get something like:

```
Q: select max("adRevenue") from uservisits
C: 1
| Version |         Mean ±    Stdev |        Min |     Median |         Q3 |        Max |
|   V1    |       32.423 ±    9.861 |     29.063 |     30.269 |     31.784 |    219.517 |
|   V2    |       11.385 ±    8.146 |      9.344 |     10.099 |     11.159 |    182.172 |
├---------┴-------------------------┴------------┴------------┴------------┴------------┘
|               -  96.04%                           -  99.93%
There is a 100.00% probability that the observed difference is not random, and the best estimate of that difference is 96.04%
The test has statistical significance
```

But adding those numbers to the release notes is always a bit questionable because the improvement is per row - so the more rows you use to test, the bigger the change.

Author: Thanks a lot for the detailed steps! :+1: I'll try it out.:)

Yeah, numbers are tricky, especially when you add the setup (the machines, # of nodes, shards, etc.). 

My thinking is: if users know what the order of the improvements (a few % vs tens %) in a constant setup is, they might see a similar (albeit not identical) improvement themselves.

It might help them make a decision on how soon they want to upgrade. Or it might convince others to start using CrateDB.:)  

> because the improvement is per row - so the more rows you use to test, the bigger the change.

Hmm, what exactly do you mean by this?

Performance and Resilience Improvements
---------------------------------------

- The :ref:`min() <aggregation-min>` and :ref:`max() <aggregation-max>` aggregations

>   for the :ref:`NUMERIC <data-types-numeric>` type now utilize the column store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improved the performance of the :ref:`min() <aggregation-min>` and
  :ref:`max() <aggregation-max>` aggregations for columns of type :ref:`NUMERIC
  <data-types-numeric>`.
```

Strictly speaking it already used the column store before - but with slower abstractions.
